Adding post about Quarkus and Testcontainers (#14)
gunnarmorling/morling.dev: content/blog/quarkus-and-testcontainers.asciidoc

---
title: "Quarkus and Testcontainers"
date: 2020-11-28T17:45:00+01:00
draft: false
---
:source-highlighter: rouge
:rouge-style: base16.dark
:icons: font
:imagesdir: /images
ifdef::env-github[]
:imagesdir: ../../static/images
endif::[]

The https://www.testcontainers.org/[Testcontainers] project is invaluable for spinning up containerized resources during your (JUnit) tests,
e.g. databases or Kafka clusters.

> The project provides the https://www.testcontainers.org/quickstart/junit_5_quickstart/[`@Testcontainers`] JUnit extension for controlling the lifecycle of containers used by a test.

Reviewer: this sounds like `@Testcontainers` and JUnit 5 is the only supported option - consider rephrasing to avoid confusing the readers :)

Author: Ok, will clarify that this is for JUnit 5 specifically.

When testing a https://quarkus.io/[Quarkus] application though, this is at odds somewhat with Quarkus' own https://quarkus.io/guides/getting-started-testing#recap-of-http-based-testing-in-jvm-mode[`@QuarkusTest`] extension;

> it's a best practice to avoid fixed ports for any containers started by Testcontainers.

Reviewer: up to you, of course, but you may link my article that explains the "why" part:
https://bsideup.github.io/posts/testcontainers_fixed_ports/

> Instead, you should rely on Testcontainers to automatically allocate random free ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, you should rely on Docker to automatically allocate random free ports.
```

Author: Oh, I didn't know that. So Docker itself can choose a public exposed port?

Reviewer: yes, that's what happens when you do `docker run -p 6379 redis` - a random port is assigned by Docker :)

Author: Yeah, TIL. I always was using -p 1234:1234 :)

This avoids conflicts between concurrently running tests,
e.g. amongst multiple Postgres containers,
started up by several parallel job runs in a CI environment, all trying to allocate Postgres' default port 5432.
Obtaining the randomly assigned port and passing it into the Quarkus bootstrap process isn't possible though when combining the two JUnit extensions.

<!--more-->

> One work-around you can find described https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61447252/integration-testing-with-testcontainers-quarkus-mongodb[e.g. on StackOverflow] is setting up the database container via a static class initializer block and then propagating the port to Quarkus as a system property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One work-around you can find described https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61447252/integration-testing-with-testcontainers-quarkus-mongodb[e.g. on StackOverflow] is setting up the database container via a static class initializer block and then propagating the host and port to Quarkus as system properties.
```
